# File Structure Overview

Project Waifu uses various files, ranging from configs to Tensorflow model checkpoints. This overview will briefly explain how and where each of the objects are stored. It should be noted that all config files created by Project Waifu are in JSON.

When you start Project Waifu for the first time, the console will prompt you to choose a directory as the storage space for resources. This directory will contain *all* the files with the exception of `\user-config.json` being at the root directory.

## config.json

It should be noted that there is a clear distinction between `\config.json` and `\user-config.json`. `\config.json` serves as a template for `\user-config.json`, which should be created either manually or automatically at first launch. This way, when the user pulls updates from git, their configs will not be overwritten.

## Waifus (or Waifu-tachi)

A Waifu, as the name suggests, is a set of models that are linked together to create an artificial intelligence agent — a Waifu. All Waifus are stored in a single file, `\Waifus.json`, at the root of the resource directory. This allows and encourages users to reuse models and data across different Waifus.

## Models

Unlike the Waifus, each model gets its own folder under the `\Models\`. A single file, `\Models\Models.json` stores information of all of the models. This also allows for models being stored outside of `\Models\` (although this is strongly discouraged). For the sake of an example, we will have a single model named `myModel`. `\Models\myModel\` will include a file `\Models\myModel\myModel.json` containing its config.

Model checkpoints and Tensorboard information, if not manually changed, will be stored in the models' folders such as `\Models\myModel\Checkpoints` and `\Models\myModel\Tensorboard`.

## Config templates

Config templates, located under `\Configs\` can be used to quickly build new identical models. Each templates is an individual JSON file that is very similar to the config file of models, with the few exceptions of model-specific values such as names and epochs.

## Data

It is often encouraged to store data in their raw forms, such as audio or words, so they can always be regenerated after changes in model structure. In the rare case of wanting to store processed data in the form of numpy ndarrays, the files will be found in the `\Data\` folder within their individual folders configed by `\Data\Data.config`. Each folder will contain a JSON config, with the name of the data object, and files generated by numpy.  

## Word Embeddings

Word embeddings, contrary to other data, should be stored, as it can take a while to process large embeddings. Embeddings are stored under the `\Embeddings\` folder with a `\Embeddings\Embeddings.json` config. Each embedding has an individual folder containig a JSON config and a numpy ndarrary file.

## TL;DR
```
Resources
├─── Waifus.json
├─── Models
│    ├─── Models.json
│    └─── myModel
│         ├─── myModel.json
│         ├─── Checkpoints
│         │     checkpoint
│         │     model-0.data-00000
│         └─── Tensorboard     
├─── Configs
│    └─── myConfigTemplate.json
├─── Data
│    ├─── Data.json
│    └─── myData
│         ├─── myData.json
│         ├─── x.npy
│         └─── y.npy
└─── Embeddings
     ├─── Embeddings.json
     └─── myEmbedding
          ├─── myEmbedding.json
          └─── myEmbedding.npy
```